<table border="1" cellspacing="0">


<tr> <td id="dcterms:rights" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:rights </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/rights </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Copyright Statement </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* Yes — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Information about rights held in and over the resource. A full-text, readable copyright statement, as required by the national legislation of the copyright holder. On collections, this applies to all contained objects, unless the object itself has a different statement. Examples: “Copyright XY 2008, all rights reserved”, “© 2008 XY Museum” , "Public Domain.", "Copyright unknown" Do not place just the name of the copyright holder(s) here! That belongs in a list in the xmpRights:Owner field, which should be supplied if dcterms:rights is not 'Public Domain', appropriate only if the resource is known to be not under copyright. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-rights"> dcterms:rights</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="xmpRights:Owner" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* xmpRights:Owner </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/rights/Owner </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Copyright Owner </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">A list of the names of the owners of the copyright. 'Unknown' is an acceptable value, but 'Public Domain' is not. See the Comments below for this term. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> Terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit , XMP Specification Part 1, Sec 8.5 for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>


<tr> <td id="xmpRights:UsageTerms" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* xmpRights:UsageTerms </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/rights/UsageTerms </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> License Terms </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The license statement defining how resources may be used. Information on a collection applies to all contained objects unless the object has a different statement. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> Terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit , XMP Specification Part 1, Sec 8.5 for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="xmpRights:WebStatement" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* xmpRights:WebStatement </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/rights/WebStatement </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> License URL </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">A URL defining or further elaborating on the license statement (e. g., a web page explaining the precise terms of use). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> Terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit , XMP Specification Part 1, Sec 8.5 for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="licenseLogoURL" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* licenseLogoURL </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/licenseLogoURL </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> License Logo URL </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">A URL providing access to a logo that symbolizes the License. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:CreditLine" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:CreditLine </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/CreditLine </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Attribution Statement </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">free text for "please cite this as…" </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="attributionLogoURL" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* attributionLogoURL </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/attributionLogoURL </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Attribution URL </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The URL of icon or logo image to appear in source attribution. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="attributionLinkURL" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* attributionLinkURL </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/attributionLinkURL </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Attribution Link URL </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The URL where information about ownership, attribution, etc. of the resource may be found. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:source" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:source </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/source </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Published Source </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">An identifiable source from which the described resources was derived. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-source"> dcterms:source</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>