Location created and Location shown are separated in the current version of IPTC, and the metadata working group (MWG 2010)[1] also recommends this. We will follow this, to support the expected future increase of automatic GPS based coordinate recording in recording devices. As a special case, the AC group recommends to change the semantics of location shown in the case of biodiversity specimens, where the original location may differ from the current location at which the specimen is held in a collection. In this case, LocationShown should exclusively refer to the location where a specimen was originally collected (gathering or sampling location). Use LocationCreated to express the location where the media was created (a specimen was digitized).
All geography terms from the DarwinCore version of 12 09 2009 are deemed included in the Core Layer. Specifically, this includes exactly those which are declared by DarwinCore to be in DarwinCore Class Location. Note that dwc:locality may be used, but as applied to media this term may be ambiguous as to whether it applies to the location depicted or the location at which the media was created. When disambiguating information is available, it is better to use the terms Location Shown and Location Acquired
<table border="1" cellspacing="0">

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:LocationShown" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:LocationShown </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/LocationShown </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Location Shown </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The location that is shown or the place of the media content, irrespective of the location from which the resource has been created. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:WorldRegion" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:WorldRegion </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/WorldRegion </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> World Region </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Name of a world region in some high level classification, such as names for continents, waterbodies, or island groups, whichever is most appropriate. The terms preferably are derived from a controlled vocabulary. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:CountryCode" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:CountryCode </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/CountryCode </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Country Code </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The geographic location of the specific entity(ies) documented by the media item, expressed through a constrained vocabulary of countries using 2-letter ISO country code (e. g. "it, si"). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:CountryName" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:CountryName </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/CountryName </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Country Name </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">This field can be free text, but where possible, the use of
http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/CountryCode is preferred. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:ProvinceState" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:ProvinceState </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/ProvinceState </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Province or State </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Optionally, the geographic unit immediately below the country level (individual states in federal countries, provinces, or other administrative units) in which the subject of the media resource (e. g., species, habitats, or events) were located (if such information is available in separate fields). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:City" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:City </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/City </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> City or Place Name </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Optionally, the name of a city or place commonly found in gazetteers (such as a mountain or national park) in which the subjects (e. g., species, habitats, or events) were located. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:Sublocation" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:Sublocation </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/Sublocation </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Sublocation </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Free-form text location details of the location of the subjects, down to the village, forest, or geographic feature etc., below the city or other place name, especially information that could not be found in a gazetteer. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>