<table border="1" cellspacing="0">

<tr> <td id="dcterms:identifier" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:identifier </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/identifier </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Identifier </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* ‘Yes’ for media collections, ‘No’ for media resources (but preferred if available) — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">An arbitrary code that is unique for the resource, with the resource being either a provider, collection, or media item. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-identifier"> dcterms:identifier</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:type" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:type </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/type </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Type </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* Yes — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Any dcmi type term from http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-type-vocabulary/ may be used. Recommended terms are Collection, StillImage, Sound, MovingImage, InteractiveResource, Text. Also recommended are PanAndZoomImage , 3DStillImage, and 3DMovingImage. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-type"> dcterms:type</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="subtype" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* subtype </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/subtype </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Subtype </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Any of Drawing, Painting, Logo, Icon, Illustration, Graphic, Photograph, Animation, Film, SlideShow, DesignPlan, Diagram, Map, MusicalNotation, IdentificationKey, ScannedText, RecordedText, RecordedOrganism, TaxonPage, MultimediaLearningObject, VirtualRealityEnvironment, GlossaryPage. These values may either be used in their literal form, or with their full namespace, e. g. http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/identificationKey </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:title" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:title </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/title </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Title </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* Yes — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Concise title, name, or brief descriptive label of institution, resource collection, or individual resource. This field should include the complete title with all the subtitles, if any. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-title"> dcterms:title</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:modified" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:modified </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/modified </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Modified </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Date that the media resource was altered. The date and time must comply with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) datetime practice, which requires that date and time representation correspond to ISO 8601:1998, but with year fields always comprising 4 digits. This makes datetime records compliant with 8601:2004. AC datetime values may also follow 8601:2004 for ranges by separating two IS0 8601 datetime fields by a solidus ("forward slash", '/'). See also the wikipedia IS0 8601 entry for further explanation and examples. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-modified"> dcterms:modified</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="xmp:MetadataDate" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* xmp:MetadataDate </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/MetadataDate </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Metadata Date </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Point in time recording when the last modification to metadata (not necessarily the media object itself) occurred. The date and time must comply with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) datetime practice, which requires that date and time representation correspond to ISO 8601:1998, but with year fields always comprising 4 digits. This makes datetime records compliant with 8601:2004. AC datetime values may also follow 8601:2004 for ranges by separating two IS0 8601 datetime fields by a solidus ("forward slash", '/'). See also the wikipedia IS0 8601 entry for further explanation and examples. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> Terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit , XMP Specification Part 1, Sec 8.4 for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="metadataLanguage" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* metadataLanguage </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/metadataLanguage </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Metadata Language </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* Yes — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Language of description and other metadata (but not necessarily of the image itself) represented in ISO639-1 or -3. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="providerManagedID" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* providerManagedID </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/providerManagedID </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Provider-managed ID </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">A free-form identifier (a simple number, an alphanumeric code, a URL, etc.) that is unique and meaningful primarily for the data provider. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="xmp:Rating" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* xmp:Rating </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/Rating </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Rating </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">A rating of the media resources, provided by users or editors, with -1 defining “rejected”, “0” defining “unrated”, and “1” (worst) to “5” (best). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> Terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit , XMP Specification Part 1, Sec 8.4 for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF., which contains "A user-assigned rating for this file. The value shall be -1 or in the range [0..5], where -1 indicates “rejected” and 0 indicates “unrated”. If xmp:Rating is not present, a value of 0 may be assumed. NOTE Anticipated usage is for a typical “star rating” UI, with the addition of a notion of rejection." Values may be decimal numbers in the permitted range. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="comments" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* comments </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/comments </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Comments </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Any comment provided on the media resource, as free-form text. Best practice would also identify the commenter. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="reviewer" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* reviewer </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/reviewer </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Reviewer </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">If present, then resource is peer-reviewed, even if Reviewers Comments are lacking. The notation of whether an expert in the subject featured in the media has reviewed the media item or collection and approved its metadata description. Must display a name or the literal "anonymous" (= anonymously reviewed). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="reviewerComments" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* reviewerComments </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/reviewerComments </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Reviewer Comments </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Any comment provided by a reviewer with expertise in the subject, as free-form text. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:available" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:available </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/available </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Date Available </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The date (often a range) that the resource became or will become available. The date and time must comply with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) datetime practice, which requires that date and time representation correspond to ISO 8601:1998, but with year fields always comprising 4 digits. This makes datetime records compliant with 8601:2004. AC datetime values may also follow 8601:2004 for ranges by separating two IS0 8601 datetime fields by a solidus ("forward slash", '/'). See also the wikipedia IS0 8601 entry for further explanation and examples. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-available"> dcterms:available</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

</table>