<table border="1" cellspacing="0">

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:LocationCreated" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:LocationCreated </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/LocationCreated </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Location Created </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The location at which the media recording instrument was placed when the media was created. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="digitizationDate" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* digitizationDate </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/digitizationDate </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Date and Time Digitized </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Date the first digital version was created, where different Date and Time Original (e. g. where photographic prints have been scanned). The date and time must comply with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) datetime practice, which requires that date and time representation correspond to ISO 8601:1998, but with year fields always comprising 4 digits. This makes datetime records compliant with 8601:2004. AC datetime values may also follow 8601:2004 for ranges by separating two IS0 8601 datetime fields by a solidus ("forward slash", '/'). See also the wikipedia IS0 8601 entry for further explanation and examples. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="captureDevice" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* captureDevice </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/captureDevice </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Capture Device </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Free form text describing the device or devices used to create the resource. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="resourceCreationTechnique" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* resourceCreationTechnique </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/resourceCreationTechnique </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Resource Creation Technique </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Information about technical aspects of the creation and digitization process of the resource. This includes modification steps ("retouching") after the initial resource capture. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>