===Service Access Point Class===
<table border="1" cellspacing="0">


<tr> <td id="serviceAccessPoint" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* serviceAccessPoint </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/serviceAccessPoint </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Service Access Point </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Reference to an object (the "access point") of a class describing network access to the media resource, or related resource, that the AC metadata describes. What constitutes a class and objects therein is dependent on the representation (e.g., XML Schema, RDF, etc.), but for full compliance such a representation must provide for the application to the access point of each of the terms in the Service Access Point Properties section below. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> serviceAccessPoint is an attribute of the media being described, as are all other AC terms except those in the following section, which are attributes of the access point class. Depending on the specific model used, the value of serviceAccessPoint may be implemented through some form of nesting objects inside other objects, or through a unique identifier pointing to an access point object. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>

===Service Access Point Properties===
<table border="1" cellspacing="0">


<tr> <td id="accessURI" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* accessURI </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/accessURI </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Access URI </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">URI of the resource itself. If this resource can be acquired by an http request, its http URL should be given. If not, but it has some URI in another URI scheme, that may be given here. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:format" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:format </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/format </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Format </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The technical format of the resource (file format or physical medium). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-format"> dcterms:format</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="variant" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* variant </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/variant </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Variant </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">What this ServiceAccessPoint provides. Suggested values are "Thumbnail", "Trailer", "Lower Quality", "Medium Quality", "Good Quality", "Best Quality", "Offline" </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="dcterms:extent" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:extent </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Extent </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The size, dimensions, or duration of the variant of the media resource. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-extent"> dcterms:extent</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="furtherInformationURL" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* furtherInformationURL </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/furtherInformationURL </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Further Information URL </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The URL of a Web site that provides additional information about (this version of) the media resource </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="licensingException" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* licensingException </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/licensingException </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Licensing Exception Statement </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The licensing statement for this variant of the media resource if different from that given in the “License Statement” property of the resource </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="serviceExpectation" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* serviceExpectation </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/serviceExpectation </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Service Expectation </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">A term that describes what service expectations users may have of the accessURL. Recommended terms include online (denotes that the URL is expected to deliver the resource), authenticate (denotes that the URL delivers a login or other authentication interface requiring completion before delivery of the resource) published(non digital) (denotes that the URL is the identifier of a non-digital published work, for example a doi.) Communities should develop their own controlled vocabularies for Service Expectations. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="variantDescription" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* variantDescription </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/variantDescription </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Variant Description </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Text that describes this Service Access Point variant </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>