<table border="1" cellspacing="0">

<tr> <td id="physicalSetting" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* physicalSetting </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/physicalSetting </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Physical Setting </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The Setting of the content represented in a medium like images, sounds, movies. Constrained vocabulary of: "Natural" = Unmodified object in a natural setting of unmodified object (e. g. living organisms in their natural environment); "Artificial" = Unmodified object in artificial setting of (e. g. living organisms in artificial environment: Zoo, Garden, Greenhouse, Laboratory; photographic background or background sound suppression). "Irrelevant" (e. g. background of Museum shots). </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="Iptc4xmpExt:CVterm" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* Iptc4xmpExt:CVterm </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://iptc.org/std/Iptc4xmpExt/1.0/xmlns/CVterm </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Subject Category </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Controlled vocabulary of subjects to support broad classification of media items. Terms from various controlled vocabularies may be used. AC-recommended vocabularies are preferred and may be unqualified literals (without a URI). For terms from other vocabularies either a precise URI should be used, or, when providing unqualified terms, to provide the source vocabulary in Subject Category Vocabulary. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> IPTC terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit IPTC Standard Photo Metadata (July 2010) for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="subjectCategoryVocabulary" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* subjectCategoryVocabulary </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/subjectCategoryVocabulary </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Subject Category Vocabulary </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Any vocabulary or formal classification from which terms in Subject Category have been drawn. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="tag" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* tag </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/tag </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Tag </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * Yes</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">General keywords or tags. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>