<table border="1" cellspacing="0">

<tr> <td id="dcterms:temporal" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* dcterms:temporal </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://purl.org/dc/terms/temporal </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Temporal Coverage </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Extended - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The coverage (extent or scope) of the content of the resource. Temporal coverage will typically include temporal period (a period label, date, or date range) to which the subjects of the media or media collection relate. If dates are mentioned, they should follow ISO 8601. When the resource is a Collection, this refers to the temporal coverage of the collection. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> See <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-temporal"> dcterms:temporal</a> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="xmp:CreateDate" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* xmp:CreateDate </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/CreateDate </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Original Date and Time </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">The date of the creation for the original resource from which the digital media was derived or created. The date and time must comply with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) datetime practice, which requires that date and time representation correspond to ISO 8601:1998, but with year fields always comprising 4 digits. This makes datetime records compliant with 8601:2004. AC datetime values may also follow 8601:2004 for ranges by separating two IS0 8601 datetime fields by a solidus ("forward slash", '/'). See also the wikipedia IS0 8601 entry for further explanation and examples. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> Terms for Adobe XMP have URIs that are not resolvable. Instead, visit , XMP Specification Part 1, Sec 8.4 for further documentation. Note that XMP does not have an explicit XML-Schema. Rather, an "XMP Schema" is actually defined in RDF. </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>

<tr> <td id="timeOfDay" border="1px" colspan="2"> <h3>*Term:* timeOfDay </h3></td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px"> *Normative URI:* </td> <td border="1px"> http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/timeOfDay </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Label:* </td> <td border="1px"> Time of Day </td> </tr> <tr><td/> <td border="1px"> *Layer:* Core - *Required:* No — *Repeatable: * No</td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Definition:* </td> <td border="1px">Free text information beyond exact clock times. </td> </tr> <tr> <td border="1px">*Details:* </td> <td> </td> </tr> <tr height="16" border="0"><td colspan="2" border="0" > </td></tr>
</table>